Add a few details about API changes and concerns (#18)
lavalamp/enhancements: keps/sig-api-machinery/3903-unknown-version-interoperability-proxy/README.md

changed on releases, so these requests should not be common. We will count them
with a metric.

There could be a large volume of requests for a specific resource which might result in the identified apiserver being unable to serve the proxied requests. This scenario should not occur too frequently, since resource types which have large request volume should not be added or removed during an upgrade -- that would cause other problems, too.

TODO: security / cert stuff.

## Design Details

Update the handler stack to detect the condition where proxying of the request to an alternate apiserver is needed.
```
func (h *handler) ServeHttp(req *http.Request){

  // find the apiserverid that knows of the request's GVR
  APIServerIdForResource = StorageVersion.getServerIdsForGVR(req))
  
  if (!APIServerIdsForResource) {

>     // no apiserver found that knows about req.resource

Reviewer: this means the resource is an aggregated api or a CR -- in both cases this filter should do nothing, just pass the request through the filter chain.

Author: Okay, but how and where is it ultimately served then?

Reviewer: The existing chain of delegates handles these requests the same on every apiserver.

Reviewer: Specifically, the aggregator proxies to aggregated apis in its main handler (which happens after all the filters); if the request is not for an aggregated api, it goes to the delegate, the built-in apiserver; if the request is not for a built-in, it goes to the next delegate, the extensions-apiserver (CRDs); if the request is not for a CRD either, it goes to the final delegate, which is just a 404 handler. But in this case a 404 is correct, since the pseudocode you've added essentially verifies the request is not for a built-in that *any* apiserver knows about.

Author: Got it, thanks for the detailed explanation. Is it possible when we query the StorageVersion that we find a resource was registered but somehow no apiserver was found that reported it? Perhaps no..

Reviewer: Yes, if the apiserver that served it shut down and the records haven't been updated yet. We can limit this window to 5s (IIRC) by looking at the lease object for the apiserver we pick to verify it hasn't expired. In that case -- there's only one apiserver choice and it doesn't have a fresh lease -- we can serve 503, I think.

Author: Makes sense!

    return (HttpResponse(503))
  }
  
  // get network location of the apiserver along with public key (think of where to make this info available)
  APIServerLocationInfo = APIService.getNetworkLocation(APIServerIdForResource)
  

>   // save APIserver network location in request context

Reviewer: No, here we would do a proxy.

Author: Updated

  req = req.WithContext(APIServerLocationInfo)

>   

Reviewer: The 503 comes in if this proxy fails for some reason.

Author: Okay but this will happen after the request has been through the entire handler stack and is finally served at some point where it will fail, right?

Reviewer: No -- if we proxy, we're cutting short the rest of the filters and handlers, we don't call them at all.

Author: Hmm, and that is fine? Not calling all filters?

Reviewer: Right, filters are allowed to short-circuit, usually for the purpose of failing the request, but in our case we will send it elsewhere.

Author: So this should happen when the request has passed through the basic set of filters (that make sense to have- like the initial few in the chain specified here https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/d2be69ac11346d2a0fab8c3c168c4255db99c56f/staging/src/k8s.io/apiserver/pkg/server/config.go#L896 adding logging, tracing, retries etc.)

Reviewer: Right.

  handler.ServeHTTP(w, req)
}
```

Concerns:

> * Since we need to query the StorageVersion API to identify which server knows about the requested resource, there will be some latency associated with this lookup. We can make use of a cache to improve performance and at the same time have a refresh interval set for the cache so that it doesn't go out of date.

Reviewer: We will watch and read from cache. There won't be any serving path latency, just latency seeing new apiservers / forgetting old ones.

Author: Updated

changed on releases, so these requests should not be common. We will count them
with a metric.

> There could be a large volume of requests for a specific resource which might result in the identified apiserver to be unable to serve the proxied requests. Although this scenario should not occur too frequently, since resource types that have large request traffic should not undergo upgrades too often.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There could be a large volume of requests for a specific resource which might result in the identified apiserver being unable to serve the proxied requests. This scenario should not occur too frequently, since resource types which have large request volume should not be added or removed during an upgrade -- that would cause other problems, too.
```

TODO: security / cert stuff.

## Design Details

> Specific API change(s)

Reviewer: Usually in sections like this in KEPs, people quote the api types (or part of them) and actually write in the new field more or less the way it should look.

Author: Does having a list of APIServerIds make sense for the serviceableBy field?

Author: Removed ServiceableBy[] clause, doesn't seem necessary to have, as discussed.

1. In [APIServiceSpec](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/staging/src/k8s.io/kube-aggregator/pkg/apis/apiregistration/v1/types.go#L50)

>    1. Add a list of serviceableby (alternate API server ids ?) to be referenced to identify which apiserver can handle the incoming request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Add a list of serviceableBy (alternate API server ids ?) to be referenced to identify which apiserver can handle the incoming request.
```

I think I call this "alternates" in the text above, can you change that wording too?

   2. Concern: Should the list of serviceableby servers (mutable by nature) go inside the spec - which should rather be kept immutable?
2. In [ServerStorageVersion](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/apis/apiserverinternal/types.go#L62):

>    1. Add a list of resource ids that an apiserver can serve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Add a list of resources that an apiserver can serve
```

>    2. Add the port of the apiserver instance, to be used in case a request needs to be proxied

Reviewer: Network location is more than just a port and I think we probably want it in the APIService object, not here.

> To determine if a request is for a resource that should be proxied, the handler should match the groupversion for the local apiserver and that of the request. If they match, the handler should determine if the resource for the request is known by the local apiserver. To do so, the handler can check the StorageVersion API to get a list of known resources for the local apiserver

Reviewer: I think this and the next paragraph would be better if you wrote pseudocode or a procedural list; as written, it sounds like we'd be reading storage version api twice. And we should address concerns like latency (so we should cache) and accuracy (so we should bound how out of date the cache can be, maybe).
